---
templateKey: chapter
book: The Echo of Christ
chapter: 4
title: Past and Present Storms
date: 2013-07-08
tags: 
  - fiction
  - novella
---

We walk over to the parked wagon and I up to the young boy.

When the ride is through, could we please be dropped off in the
back, Carl?

"Well, hey! Is the rest of the gang coming? You guys haven't been
around for . . . well, it's been a long time, hasn't it?"

A couple years, but it feels like longer, doesn't it? And no, I
don't believe the guys will be coming back here any time soon. It
would seem that I am the only one left these days. Maybe Jonathan
here can change that someday soon. What do you think Carl?

"Well that's too bad. I think about you guys once in a while. You
guys brought something, well, something different to this place.
Something I haven't felt since you left."

"That means a lot, Carl. Thank you."

I hand him some cash for good measure--like the good ol' days.

Jonathan and I climb into the wagon and find a spot amongst the
crowd. A little girl, complete with jeans, bow, lace and dirt
snuggles against me, takes my hand, and leans her head on my shoulder.

And who might you be, my little angel?

"I hope you don't mind, sir, I told her to leave you alone," her
mother chimes in, "but she insisted, and seein's how I don't seem to
have much control . . ."

Oh of course I don't mind. Besides, I'm sure we have some mutual
friends in Never-land, right dear? She giggles.

I'm not sure why this grace has befallen me tonight, Jonathan, but
as someone once said, this is the extent to which one should be a
philosopher. And a believer, I'd say. This angel has pronounced the
verdict on my heart.

I smile at her, and just like that she scampers off. The wagon
jostles through the ruts, and we slip into the melody of trees.

On that day, the clouds loomed dark over to the west, and I sat on
the wagon nervously squirming in my seat, waiting for the pickers to
finish up and hop on the wagon. I yelled out a little warning to the
customers a couple of times, but no one seemed to care much at all.
Except her.

Her name was Charley, with a "y" or so she said.

"So uh, cowboy, what are you gonna do for me if these slackers don't
hurry it up? You got some shelter for me up there, or should I go
hide beneath a tree?"

She was leaning up against the side of the wagon with her curvy
yellow sun dress pressed firmly against the wood. I stumbled around
my words for a little while, mumbling something about the owner
being pretty strict, and what about all the rest of the customers,
blah, blah, blah.

"Well, we could pretend I was your sis. Anything to keep my hair
from getting wet."

And like a fool, I replied in fake confidence, "Yeah, that would be
tragic." But instead of sounding like confidence, it sounded like
sarcasm, and taking it completely the wrong way, she erupted in
laughter and exclaimed, as she walked away, that I better at least
help her find a decent tree to hide under.

So feeling like a complete jerk, I jumped off the wagon, against my
better judgment, and ran after her. But as soon as I burst through
the first layer of trees, I realized that I had no idea where she
went. So I, looking very calm and collected, walked briskly through
row after row, looking down the aisles.

After about 10 rows had passed, the storm had darkened the orchard
and a massive crack of lightning smacked somewhere much too close,
deafening the air and rumbling the ground, and immediately following
that noise were two that I did not expect: neighing and galloping.

My eyes grew bigger than my head, and I turned to run faster than I
knew I could.