---
templateKey: blog-post
title: Unkempt
date: 2013-06-01
featuredpost: false
tags:
  - personal essay
---

Around the perimeter of my property is an entire town of short
grass, uncluttered yards and clean lines. Growing up we heard two
equally persuasive refrains: "you are special" in terms of the
positive and the future or "everyone goes through that" when it came
to every real life event, so when I perceive that my life, at least
on the surface, is uniquely in shambles--the only crumbling brick in
the pyramid--my conscience applauds me on both ends.

"See, you are the unique tragedy of modern society."

"Don't worry, everybody goes through that."

My neighbor seems to believe that safety apparel is fashionable. I
have a theory for all of this--a theory that everybody knows but
only I had the genius to create. Most people, at least in small-town
America, believe in the basics. Everything is nearly as it should
be, and if we had good, decent folk in charge life would be grand.
The common aspiration is almost entirely for *order*.
Morality is order. Cleanliness is order. Adulthood is order.

I don't actually believe in power tools, though I use them, but not
as often as I should. And instead of wearing goggles, I sit in the
garage and ponder the existential history of the goggle and its
subsequent moral weight.  I don't believe in the basics, and without
the basics, who cares about order?

All that, I guess, is my apology to this town of neighbors. My yard
is Einstein's hair, but don't worry, everybody goes through this.
