---
templateKey: blog-post
title: The State of the Nation
date: 2014-02-01
featuredpost: false
tags:
  - essay
  - esoteric
  - political
---

> "Do you believe in God, Mr. Le Chiffre."
>
> "I believe in a reasonable rate of return."
> 
> Casino Royale

America may die a quick and brutish disintegration, but a reasonable
citizen will not assume such gloomy forecasts in his budget. He
will, instead, discuss the possibility of a reasonable rate of
recovery and our future viability in the world market, and these
choices of topics are rightly so. This massive organism whom we
loosely call the American Economy is 'too big to fail,' or more
precisely, too big to perceive what a failure would look like or
what exactly would be the implications of such a collapse. One
cannot plan on catastrophe not yet self evident. Still, a man of
history will always perceive the possibility of the inevitable end.
All organisms must die and yet live today regardless.

The matter is further complicated by the lack of a certified
coroner. Who will pronounce her death? When do the symptoms cease to
remind us of a living body—who can tell when the disease merely
lives on and the host has become an empty vessel, a tool? Are these
questions at all useful for the citizen who must, nevertheless, plan
his budget?

The neglected matter of the American is nearly always the psyche. We
fix our houses, we toil at our careers, and we remain stoic to the
grim tides, trudging on as is our duty—our pride—our citizenship.
Along the way, our emotions and our motivations are trampled in the
dust, and we may wince, but we move on. And the psyche is resilient;
she dusts herself off and limps along behind us, behind us, and
slowly further and further behind us. Then, miles and years down the
road, as if by lightening strike, the spirit of our body realizes
that she is gone. The motivation can no longer be forged. The muse
is dead . . . lost somewhere and beaten upon the path. The life in
our back falls limp, and we are stunted evermore by a low hum of
tragedy underlying the foundations of our life.

But we are American. We are human. We beat on.

But again, who will pronounce her death? When do the symptoms cease
to remind us . . ?


Singularity of intention is very nearly the definition of disease.
The cancer cell possesses the singular desire of replication and
thus lays waste to whomsoever it touches. However, we often speak of
the founding of this country as if it were such a matter of singular
intention. Some will claim our success as the sheer self-evident
power of the free market economy; some will say that we are the
shining beacon of the power of democracy, and the list goes on and
on. Nevertheless, I would presume that we all know this not to be
the case. Our success has never been singular, but rather, the
extraordinary power and resiliency of a tentative balance between a
host of fantastically powerful human ambitions and capacities. In
short, the birth of a living organism—a breathing contract.

So it stands rightly that we should believe in the possibility and
the inevitability of a recovery. This massive organism heaves to and
fro, but returns, at last and with force, to equilibrium and the
rebuilding of an unparalleled strength. But then what of age?


The slow tragedy of life is the decay which occurs while one still
grows and lives. The small and marginal pieces get broken and left
behind. Recoveries are not always complete. Tiny sacrifices are
made, building over time into the overarching aches and sluggishness
of old age.

And at some point, a battle is won and forgotten. The victor goes on
as usual, and the enemy goes underground and invisible, slowly to
regain composure, and he begins a quiet plan in the dark, unnoticed,
until finally, on a quiet and unassuming day, when the battle has
faded into a forgotten piece of marginal history, and the body has
slowed into a quiet stroll, the enemy moves in and takes control,
unnoticed and unobstructed. Death becomes life, and life is forgotten.


The choices that form us into adults seem to tend towards singular
intentions not entirely our own. We succumb, and necessarily so, to
the demands of the communal organism. So it is that a reasonable
adult will always live with quiet pangs of melancholy, a romantic
yet hushed longing for a childhood that can never return—a time with
open intentions and perpetual wandering—a flourish of unformed
dreams and meandering pathways—a time when rebellion was a curiosity
and not yet an impossible cure.

If we could imagine the nearness of a singular intention that claims
the power and success of this country, it would be something like
that melancholy dream of childhood. It would be the intention
towards life itself. The only topic closed for debate was tyranny.
The grand enemy was disease himself and his tantalizing guise of
singularity. It was the strength and resolve of idealism, but she
has aged.


The diseases are now spread and hold sway. No one can say for
certain what is left of life and what of death in this fantastic
organism, but that the diseases are deafeningly strong there can be
no doubt. And alas, the inevitable calculus of life is that death is
often the most prudent and reasonable solution.

A death so that perhaps, if one catches a ray of the sun, he may
find a tender, brilliant green wind its way through the carcass,
carefully collecting and categorizing the remaining nutrients and
slowly mounting a steeple atop. At first indistinguishable from the
flood of scavengers, but steadily and with the brute will of a
child, finding strength and wind and rain.

So that what once was one life became many, and what once was many
yielded to one, and that one, in due time, matured into a dark, hard
wood which would be a home and a refuge for the lives of many.

If only a seed would drop.
