---
templateKey: chapter
book: Prelude
chapter: 17
title: A Hesitant Meditation
date: 2013-06-10
tags:
  - novella
  - fiction
---

This heart is a long restless.

And this sharp conscience of frigid mountain winds lays guilt upon
even the beginning of the meditation. “Do you pray?”, it questions
me. “Would you lay this burden upon us at the fore, to give Truth a
master and a beneficiary? Cast back this heavy load lest truth, she
faint, and hope is lost.    All is lost for Truth but now; the well
is tainted. Do not begin.”

From whence do you call, you frittering voice? I dig with rock in my
fingernails, days and years upon end, strike gold, and you call me a
fool. “Bite the worthless rock.” But my heart had leapt, and you
silence all but a glimmer of hope. You test my patience, dear
conscience. We grow weary at this constant toil, and these hands now
feel limp, the blisters worn through, the calluses shedding with
smears of blood. This mine is empty, and your guidance falls under a
shadow of doubt.

Have we gained the world, dear guide, and lost our soul? Was this
the intention all along? Heaven forbid! If so, you have dealt a most
treacherous hand. But no, you lay the blame on me for I sounded the
gong and commanded you in my youth, “Cast it into the fire! Fan the
flame! We will test it all and be left with the purest gold. If He
is Truth, which I doubt not at all, He will shine in the last, in
relief, far brighter than the ashes of this fragile world, these
feigned truths!”

So far we have traveled alone since that day, dear guide.

Was this truly in arrogance, dear guide? Did I settle with you upon
an evil occupation, doomed to tragedy from the taintings of a pride
destined to be hatred and ending in a void? We were artisans, you
and I, perfecting our craft, but the fire has all but consumed our
tools. Surely not for nothing. We must make penance for our error,
lest Truth forever turn her head in shame.

Does my guide grow silent–remorseful? Do not be saddened, old
friend. You were right. I set the tone and the method. No, no. We
mustn’t go back. No. Stoke the flames. The labor must near be over,
else why now would we doubt so fiercely? We must cast that strange,
sly, tainting sin into the heat. We must not stop now–here: our
sacrifice will be our consummation.

* * *

How now do we find this sin? Where has this arrogance found
residence and a fort to cast such clouds on our judgment? How is it
that we so quickly found ‘Thanksgiving’ as a response to the mystery
of life but still failed to the last to bare even a hint of
humility? Why is the knee so slow to bow?

I feared treachery, and still fear her. For whom should I kneel at
the beginning to be certain I was knighted in Truth? It is that
last, treacherous leap of faith. How could I leap before I had
learnt to walk, and even now, when I crawl ever closer to the earth?
How could I leap? What sign does Truth give that I should recognize
her?

But we have long said that the sign can only be in the appearance of
the fulfillment of our desires. She would have to show us that She
was the source of real joy, real peace, real energy, and real
harmony within and without. Does She go without representation? Who
can lay claim to these possessions?

And we thought that we had seen these representatives, or did we?
No, only the last prophets calling out for repentance in the
wilderness. They called us to put down our idols and pick up our
swords. They taught us to see more lucidly, to stand strong against
the wayward winds, and they pointed towards what was to come if we
fought through enough wounds, but they could not give us the Bride.

So we fought the wayward winds. We cut down the fruitless trees. We
cleared with an iron will every yielding pathway. But in the end, we
stood bravely in the face of the sea and saw no land. So we looked
inward. We tidied the deck and invented new games. Then, bored with
that, we feigned virtue. We tried to right the wrongs of the sea,
but without hope of land, we had naught to give. So we grew
discouraged and angry, and even thankfulness groaned wearily in our
breath.

And at last our heroes lost their savor and grew distant. We could
hardly bare their tone. Our eyes grew accustomed to the swirling of
the sea and the mingling of the winds, and we lost all clarity,
slowly descending into savagery.

Did our prophets mislead us? They told us to fight at all costs, but
was their ever hope in the war, or did we merely fight that at the
last we might give up and find Truth waiting? If so, what was the
purpose? Did we gain any clarity of vision? Was this struggle
necessary for us to find the center of Truth–an axis hidden until
one has lost all bearing?

Perhaps this struggle was the only way to teach us that a knee bent
is stronger than a knee tall. Perhaps it was to show us that when
one seeks to grasp Truth, one betrays a secret desire to own Truth
and in the end, to Be Truth.

But should we bend the knee, does that not obviously mean that we
would lose our grasp on the small but strong truths we have found,
and are those not simply pieces of our lucidity which we had fought
so long to attain? For even in savagery we see clearly that our
vision is fogging into a dream and we can see the “inevitable”
reasons why. We know from whence we’ve come, and we know that we do
not know. How could we give up these halcyons to merely feign that
we now know? Such a tragedy would be diabolical.

Should we come simply to see ourselves more clearly–as small–merely
a piece of the giant fabric, without hope of ever grasping Truth for
our own understanding? How pitiful a thought.

Or have we seen long enough, dear guide, to satisfy our first
criterion? Have we seen the sign somewhere unnoticed, un-lingered
along the way? Did it stand the test? Would it? Should we now leap
and fall into peace?

* * *

Let us, if we can, dear guide, recount the signs.

No, no, no. This heart will not leap, nay, this soul will not vault
for matrices of pros and cons, equations and formulations. This vast
history of questioning needs only a strong, simple axis for
movement–a solid belief, not certain, but with the power to sustain.
And we linger yet over the Kingdom, dear guide. There is always a
confused whispering from the east. Is She love?

For we have long believed, at least in part, that the Kingdom Love
is a unique kind of love, glimmering through the clouds of histories
grand and personal here and there and in part, redeeming the beauty
and hope of this life. We have walked calmly through the valley of
the shadow of death and feared everything, but still then we
remembered our Norman Rockwell memories–those gentle moments of love
that sustained the hopes of our youth. And we looked back through
the valley not too long ago, when the last shadow of hope had past
over the withered grass of thoughts in this soul, and faintly
noticed that those moments of Kingdom Love had broken in from
various sources throughout this journey, forming a haze of light
which sustained a continuous hope of hope in the shadows.

It was then that we began to realize that all loves are either
pieces or reflections of this Kingdom Love–a love funded by
Patience, Kindness, Gentleness, and Self-Control. And the energy of
this Kingdom Spirit, we began to realize, has, all along, quietly
been beating at the center of all the goodness of this life.

And so now we must give thanks long overdue. We must let the lists
of yes’s and no’s fall away into their humble places. We must listen
again for that energy which has sustained us throughout those barren
lands.

We must walk away from historical speculations and look merely for
the sign, and we have seen it, and her name is Transcendental
Love–the energy of resurrection in this life. She is the sign and
Christ the incarnation, the fountain of this energy and the
realization of its reflections in history, both grand and personal.
And when taken in soul and stride even but a little, this truth has
the habit of releasing mysteries unbidden of questions which before
did not have answers, thus my days of late have shown. Thus will
this truth serve–must this truth serve–as the central axis for the
leap. We must receive, at last, in full, this energy, for in the
end, She is a Spirit given.

And now we will cease to describe this axis, this Kingdom Love, for
we have nearly confused ourselves, dear guide. And an axis can never
be an argument but always an energy found deep within the surface of
this life, and energies such as this are only found by quiet and
patient listening.

And we see now, dear guide, that this energy is the sign our
prophets looked for–a deep, peaceful current of desire that would
open up a new man by giving him a new reality, a new foundation, a
new soul. But as those prophets were also looking to discover, they
were keen to be the discoverer–to mark a territory of their own.
Their psychology held a conquistador spirit, and Truth will not be
conquered nor seduced. Truth blushed and turned Her head. Dominion,
it seems, can only be given. When Adam took the domain for himself,
it was taken away. The new Adam must walk a different path for his
garden is barren at the start. He must empty himself of vanity
before his domain can be received. He must always remain a mustard
seed. The old is passed away; new wineskins must be prepared.

And as hard as it may be to hear again, the sign points to the giver
of this domain and this energy–the Christ.

* * *

And so the Comforter calls to us–this Spirit of Love–this Kingdom
that has awaited our emptiness. Will now the knee bend and you, dear
guide, be satisfied?

But you say, “Wait. Hold the mystery. Never forget to hold the
mystery. Know that you do not know. Do not let faith mar your
clarity.”

What is this faith, that I should be fearful of such profound
deception? Will she seduce me to believe that now, alas, I know the
Other?–that the great Mysteries are unveiled?–that we ourselves now
sit on the highest watchtower?

And certainly we’ve seen such deceptions happen almost daily, dear
guide. For dread an empty faith brimming full of the most heinous
deceptions–she feigns the name of the Mystery: the Knowledge of Good
and Evil. For dread to lose this fragile soul of humanity:
sympathy–no–empathy, tragedy, the traveler.

Again, what is faith? How do we dip our toes into the mystery, or
rather, how do we leap without holding Truth as our own, our
conquered?

We must move in harmony. We follow the tone of love. We move where
allowed to move. We ask for guidance and mercy and comfort. And if
we err, we err within the bounds of love and harmony, and you, dear
guide, are satisfied, for in this way, we never breach the Mystery
but always hold it steadfast and gentle in our vision. And you, dear
guide, will find yourself, we hope, strong and soothed by pointing
to a deeper, quieter guide–by bending the knee.

To enter that strange Kingdom of Power that has graced me with
comforts unbidden throughout this cold journey, to enter a home
prepared for us, to find land and a people and hope, I bend the knee.

---

And so, at last, in a balancing hesitation, careful not to lose what
has already been given or achieved, I bend the knee. I fall down
beneath the water. Lord. Master. King. Raise me, lest I drown in
fear and hesitation. Knight me in Truth. Baptize me, I beg.

* * *

Our Father, who art in Heaven, hallowed be Thy Name. Thy kingdom
come, Thy will be done, on earth as it is in Heaven. Give us this
day our daily bread, and forgive us our trespasses as we forgive
those who trespass against us. Lead us not into temptation, but
deliver us from evil.

Our Father, strip the calluses from this heart that it may bleed
again in empathy and sensitivity.

Our Father, raise my soul out of this murky self in which it wallows
that I may in full take on the beautiful desires of Your Kingdom,
Your people, and all of Your Creation.

Our Father, empty me, that I may receive the consciousness of Your
Spirit of comfort, peace, and joy, that I might radiate your beauty
with a knee ever bent.

Our Father, let me see in humility; let me call you Father; let me
linger at Home.

Our Father, let me breathe comfort to those who mourn, and let them
breathe peace into me.

Our Father, let me be to you a new wineskin. Clothe me in the
desires of your children, and let me harmonize them. Let my life be
to you a melody and to the world a resurrected siren’s call.

Our Father, let me be, in You, let me Be.

Amen

* * *

And He raises me and set’s my feet solidly on the ground, and I fall
to my knees and grasp the dirt in my hands.

Was this dirt not the reward for my toil–to lose that lofty, clouded
vision and again see clearly the breath of God in dirt and blood and
tears? And these desires, this Kingdom, grows quietly in the fields,
and the desires reach skin to skin, lips to lips, blood to blood.

Let us watch the music now, dear guide. Let us listen to the Spirit
move in the coursing blood of the people of this earth–in their
dreams, their children-hopes, their raging hearts.

Let us find their strength and redeem it all, anoint it, breathe it
in. Yes, let us breathe in, bend the knee, and breathe deeper still.

* * *

I am reminded now of the liberating peace which comes with voluntary
suffering and perseverance. How else should we empty ourselves if
not by leveling out our desires to make them just some of the many
desires that we have taken on in the Kingdom Spirit? Yes, that
suffering continually opens up our consciousness and frees us from
that putrid indigestion which comes of stewing only over the desires
of this single, minuscule self.

Let us continually make movements of suffering, that we may see His
face and His Kingdom more clearly. Let us open up that orchestra of
desires and dance within.

For how can one play in the desires of self only, when so little can
be done to fulfill them. No, give me also the desires of those that
I love and those that I hate, that I may freely play and dance and
harmonize.

* * *

Then patience too, the first virtue of the Spirit, the harbinger of
a beautiful lust, the voice of delayed gratification. How could we
play without a pause? How else would we create relief, a forte, a
crescendo? Yes, patience–the sister of suffering–the salt.

Yes, patience, who opens up the door to the other and the Other. How
could we see into the soul of a woman without the patience to stop
and look and wait? How could we hear the voice of God in her eyes?
How could we see anything beautiful and separate from ourselves
without stopping our own desires for a pause to listen and to see
something beyond?

And so at last we have land, dear guide.

And you ask if we have found being also, that old philosopher’s
snare. I am not sure. Were we looking for being? No. Only for Truth.
Must Truth have being? I need not know the answer, dear guide. A
transcendental melody to sing is being and beauty enough for me.

And we see also, dear guide, that the being which the soul yearns to
understand is not found by thought or reason, but by a movement of
the soul–yes–by patience herself.

So I will breathe more deeply–the air of this land, the breath of my
lover, the souls of our sisters and brothers. I will find my way,
slowly, into the soft dance of a humble child, along this orchestra
of desires and this deep, quiet beat of a Kingdom of Peace and
Comfort.

I will find again the old role models and breathe resurrection and a
melody back into their work in my life. I will work the patient,
quiet, suffering and peaceful life of a comforter and find real joy
and, above all, contentment, by swimming in a sea of never-ending
desires.

Make room in my soul, dear Comforter, and take residence.

In your mercy,

Amen.
