---
templateKey: chapter
book: Prelude
chapter: 5
title: The Tragic Conciousness
date: 2013-05-10
tags:
  - novella
  - fiction
---

“Don’t you mind that seasoned wood, son; we’re burnin’ green wood
tonight.”

The wheelbarrow sinks through the wet grass leaving a line that
remembers our path, marked sharply by the harsh shadows of the
setting sun.

“Listen, son. A man like you’s gonna stack that wood true an’
straight, mindin’ the winds an’ the laws’a fire.”

His hand graces my shoulder as he lifts out a small log and holds it
up before his gaze.

“But tonight this pit is hallowed ground.”

His grin turns toward me, and his eyes lift my searching heart.

“So you let this wood tell ya how it minds ta lay, and you listen
close.”

And he tosses the log dead into the center of the pit.

* * * * *

“Don’t treat it so damn down, son. This ain’t no ent song; this is
the lark in the mornin’ and when the wax wings melt.”

* * * * *

The flames whistle and the logs collapse.

“I doubt you come here just ta see some eccentric ol’ man, an’ I’ll
tell you soundly that I ain’t waistin’ nobody’s time. Words got a
purpose, an’ they’ll make one for themselves if you ain’t wise to
give one. An’ these pictures we live in are keen to tell a story,
but’cha gotta keep your eyes open and take it for yourself lest it
float away unattached. Some’ll reckon hard o’er tryin’ to make their
breath last an extra day, but they’ll waste their words on want’a
something to say an’ lose the breath they have. We ain’t got time
for such luxuries, an’ I ain’t waistin’ nobody’s time.

But I’ll warn you right now that if answers is what ya come for,
we’re gonna have ta watch this fire burn, an’ you gotta learn how it
feels, an’ you gotta see those embers grow pale. Ain’t nothin’ ta
replace a soul that’s watched this fire burn, an’ ain’t nothin’ so
dark as the air above those cold ashes. You gotta have a stomach for
that air an’ a heart to find new wood, or that chill’s gonna turn
your blood cold for the rest’a your days.

So me an’ you, we’ll stand here tonight, an’ I’ll stoke a flame or
two, but you’re gonna need to find that heart on your own. That
heart just ain’t to be given. An’ you may happen on a day when your
eyes close to sunlight an’ your ears turn from laughter, an’ you may
wonder why anyone would watch this fire, but you be certain now that
there’s hope to be had, an’ I’ll be damned if I ain’t laid some down
already. I tell you soundly–I’ll be damned if I can’t help you find
more wood.”

His eyes squint, standing fixed on the flames as he slowly fingers
more fuel and lends it a path.

“Now you tell me how ta find security in this world, how ta mind
your bullets t’always hit their mark.”

I watch the crackling heat collapse the logs again, and those green
logs burn for a year or more with my eyes fixed upon them.
